README.md, before:

# Web remote for OBS
Web remote UI for controlling [OBS Studio](https://obsproject.com/) via the [obs-websocket plugin](https://github.com/obsproject/obs-websocket)

**[→ Use it online now](https://dvangennip.github.io/web_remote_for_OBS/)**

## Screenshot
![preview of the UI with status bar up top, scene views in the middle, and audio controls below that.](documents/web-remote-screenshot-v3.png "Web remote for OBS main user interface.")

## How to use
1. Start [OBS](https://obsproject.com/) (v27.1.3). Make sure [obs-websocket plugin](https://github.com/obsproject/obs-websocket) is installed (v4.9.1).
2. Point browser to [`index.html`](/index.html) (or use the link above)
3. Control OBS via the webpage.
    - You'll have to enter the obs-websocket connection details on the page before connecting.
    - Code relies on [obs-websocket-js](https://github.com/obs-websocket-community-projects/obs-websocket-js) (included here for convenience)

## Features
- Enable/disable Studio Mode (hotkey: `S`)
- Switch between scenes
    - Transition hotkey: `T` (only when in Studio Mode)
    - Left click to switch to scene or (when in Studio Mode) set Preview scene
    - Use `0-9` to set numbered scene (only available for the first ten scenes)
    - Right click (or `shift + [0-9]`) to immediately set scene as Program (when in Studio Mode)
- Scene previews
    - Updates every 2 seconds for Program and Preview scenes
    - Updates every 10 seconds for inactive scenes
- Control audio sources
    - Mute/unmute
    - Show/hide
    - Volume
    - Filter settings (not all filters are supported)
- Fullscreen toggle hotkey: `F`
- Ability to edit text sources directly

## Notes and known issues
- Some browsers won't allow insecure connections when the page itself is served securely. So the [page on GitHub]((https://dvangennip.github.io/obs_web_remote/)) (which is served via `https`) may not work with a regular local instance of OBS.
    - If so, try using another browser (Firefox or Opera seem to work), enable insecure connections within secure pages (not generally recommended) or download this repo and run it locally.
- Currently not optimised for use on mobile devices.
- Any scenes with `hidden` or `subscene` in their name are ignored and not shown in the scene list.
- Audio list has space dedicated for visual audio volume meters, but that functionality is not yet available in obs-websocket.
- For more, see [Issues](https://github.com/dvangennip/obs_web_remote/issues)

## Adding text source editing
It's possible to add inputs to directly edit text sources in OBS. By adding `input` elements into the `index.html` file, the page can be customised to directly edit specific sources. The following is supported:

- Text inputs
    - These edit text sources in OBS.
    - Make sure the `input` element has an attribute `data-obsr-source` and matching `id` and `name` values that reflect the source name in OBS.
- Select elements
    - Handy to select a preset for multiple text sources in one go.
    - Requires a `data-obsr-selector` attribute to work. Its value should be the source names it feeds into (multiple are split with a `|` character).

See the HTML code below for an example:

````html
<!-- add this into the <ul id="source_list"> tag within index.html -->
<li class="source-item">
    <h4>Lower third</h4>
    <div class="source-inputs">
        <div class="input-wrapper">
            <label for="LT-name">Name</label>
            <input type="text" id="LT-name" name="LT-name" data-obsr-source="LT-name">
        </div>
        <div class="input-wrapper">
            <label for="LT-role">Role</label>
            <input type="text" id="LT-role" name="LT-role" data-obsr-source="LT-role">
        </div>
        <div class="input-wrapper">
            <label for="LT-affiliation">Affiliation</label>
            <input type="text" id="LT-affiliation" name="LT-affiliation" data-obsr-source="LT-affiliation">
        </div>
        <div class="input-wrapper">
            <label for="LT-select">Select from preset list</label>
            <select id="LT-select" name="LT-select" data-obsr-selector="LT-name|LT-role|LT-affiliation">
                <option value="-|-|-">No name chosen</option>
                <option value="Some name|Fake role|Fake unit">Some name</option>
                <option value="Another person|Another role|Affiliation">Another person</option>
            </select>
        </div>
    </div>
</li>
<!-- </ul> -->
````

## License
- [Unlicense](https://unlicense.org/): This is free and unencumbered software released into the public domain.
- [obs-websocket-js](https://github.com/obs-websocket-community-projects/obs-websocket-js) has its own license.
- Icons used are from [lucide.dev](https://lucide.dev/) (see [their license](https://github.com/lucide-icons/lucide/blob/master/LICENSE))

Commit message:

Use ES6 import/export to split js into modules
Classes are now split between files for easier maintenance and ES6 import and export statements used to pull in the newly created modules. Much cleaner but now requires a webserver due to js module CORS restrictions.

Fixes #17

README.md, after:

# Web remote for OBS
Web remote UI for controlling [OBS Studio](https://obsproject.com/) via the [obs-websocket plugin](https://github.com/obsproject/obs-websocket)

**[→ Use it online now](https://dvangennip.github.io/web_remote_for_OBS/)**

## Screenshot
![preview of the UI with status bar up top, scene views in the middle, and audio controls below that.](documents/web-remote-screenshot-v3.png "Web remote for OBS main user interface.")

## How to use
1. Start [OBS](https://obsproject.com/) (v27.1.3). Make sure [obs-websocket plugin](https://github.com/obsproject/obs-websocket) is installed (v4.9.1).
2. Unless you're using the link above (skip to step 5), download or checkout this repository.
3. Start a webserver in the repo root folder (where `index.html` is located).
    - For example, using python: `python3 -m http.server`
    - You'll now have a webserver on `localhost:8080` (or any other port indicated)
4. Point browser to your webserver url (in the example above, it's [`localhost:8080`](localhost:8080))
5. Control OBS via the webpage.
    - You'll have to enter the obs-websocket connection details on the page before connecting.
    - Code relies on [obs-websocket-js](https://github.com/obs-websocket-community-projects/obs-websocket-js) (included here for convenience)

## Features
- Enable/disable Studio Mode (hotkey: `S`)
- Switch between scenes
    - Transition hotkey: `T` (only when in Studio Mode)
    - Left click to switch to scene or (when in Studio Mode) set Preview scene
    - Use `0-9` to set numbered scene (only available for the first ten scenes)
    - Right click (or `shift + [0-9]`) to immediately set scene as Program (when in Studio Mode)
- Scene previews
    - Updates every 2 seconds for Program and Preview scenes
    - Updates every 10 seconds for inactive scenes
- Control audio sources
    - Mute/unmute
    - Show/hide
    - Volume
    - Filter settings (not all filters are supported)
- Fullscreen toggle hotkey: `F`
- Ability to edit text sources directly

## Notes and known issues
- Some browsers won't allow insecure connections when the page itself is served securely. So the [page on GitHub]((https://dvangennip.github.io/obs_web_remote/)) (which is served via `https`) may not work with a regular local instance of OBS.
    - If so, try using another browser (Firefox or Opera seem to work), enable insecure connections within secure pages (not generally recommended) or download this repo and run it locally.
- Currently not optimised for use on mobile devices.
- Any scenes with `hidden` or `subscene` in their name are ignored and not shown in the scene list.
- Audio list has space dedicated for visual audio volume meters, but that functionality is not yet available in obs-websocket.
- For more, see [Issues](https://github.com/dvangennip/obs_web_remote/issues)

## Adding text source editing
It's possible to add inputs to directly edit text sources in OBS. By adding `input` elements into the `index.html` file, the page can be customised to directly edit specific sources. The following is supported:

- Text inputs
    - These edit text sources in OBS.
    - Make sure the `input` element has an attribute `data-obsr-source` and matching `id` and `name` values that reflect the source name in OBS.
- Select elements
    - Handy to select a preset for multiple text sources in one go.
    - Requires a `data-obsr-selector` attribute to work. Its value should be the source names it feeds into (multiple are split with a `|` character).

See the HTML code below for an example:

````html
<!-- add this into the <ul id="source_list"> tag within index.html -->
<li class="source-item">
    <h4>Lower third</h4>
    <div class="source-inputs">
        <div class="input-wrapper">
            <label for="LT-name">Name</label>
            <input type="text" id="LT-name" name="LT-name" data-obsr-source="LT-name">
        </div>
        <div class="input-wrapper">
            <label for="LT-role">Role</label>
            <input type="text" id="LT-role" name="LT-role" data-obsr-source="LT-role">
        </div>
        <div class="input-wrapper">
            <label for="LT-affiliation">Affiliation</label>
            <input type="text" id="LT-affiliation" name="LT-affiliation" data-obsr-source="LT-affiliation">
        </div>
        <div class="input-wrapper">
            <label for="LT-select">Select from preset list</label>
            <select id="LT-select" name="LT-select" data-obsr-selector="LT-name|LT-role|LT-affiliation">
                <option value="-|-|-">No name chosen</option>
                <option value="Some name|Fake role|Fake unit">Some name</option>
                <option value="Another person|Another role|Affiliation">Another person</option>
            </select>
        </div>
    </div>
</li>
<!-- </ul> -->
````

## License
- [Unlicense](https://unlicense.org/): This is free and unencumbered software released into the public domain.
- [obs-websocket-js](https://github.com/obs-websocket-community-projects/obs-websocket-js) has its own license.
- Icons used are from [lucide.dev](https://lucide.dev/) (see [their license](https://github.com/lucide-icons/lucide/blob/master/LICENSE))
